--- 
title:      I'm Alive
created_at: 2010-10-06 07:06:47.883448 +07:00
excerpt:
kind:       article
publish:    true
tags:
  - en
  - srs
--- 

I'm alive

Sorry for the delay but I was in no condition to post before. Even now,stuck on
my bed, it"s not easy. My operation went well, this Monday morning. When I woke
up in the recovery room, I had a mask to help me breathe, with a lot of cream
(like gloss) to make it stick better I suppose. Before the op., I was wheeled
into the operating theater. My boyfriend stayed with me until I entered the
theater. I was almost crying.

When I woke up, I felt fine and I must have kept asking when I will go to my
room. I don't remember being wheeled back. Arrived, I felt fine and phoned to
Elie, my boyfriend as he wasn't here. It was 2:45 pm He didn't expect that I
would wake up so soon. He came a little after. I also phoned my parents using
the freephonie SIP account. I was still under the effect of anesthesia, so I had
a very small voice.

Pain was ok, I didn't have much (but I was under morphine). This apparently
caused me redness so they later switched to something else. With time, i felt
less and less pain. Now, it's only pressure under the dressings, nothing more.
But they still give me paracetamol I think.

Next morning, the anesthetist came to confirm everything was all right. She
indeed switch from morphine and also had to inject me anti-inflammatory because
my blood was clotting a bit more than usual, but still in the normal range. She
also told me that at first she couldn't insert the breathing tube in my throat
because my throat was too thin, so she had to insert a smaller tube, 7.5 inner
diameter. That's probably why I have I fairer voice.

Later, Dr Suporn visited me, and quickly said that I could move, it was good for
blood circulation. Legs, torso, arms ... And stated again the no sexual taught
motto. Then, the day passed quickly with me eating, sleeping eating and sleeping
again, probably because of the sleep pills.

I'll leave you here, I have to go down to a more comfortable position.