--- 
title:      How to Dilate
created_at: 2010-10-12 11:45:29.935458 +07:00
excerpt:
kind:       article
publish:    true
tags:
  - en
  - srs
--- 

On the bathroom, you need:

- Hybiscrub soap
- Betadine
- Drinking water
- Syrnge

On the bedroom, you need at hand disposition (on the bed itself):

- Dilator
- Condoms
- KY Jelly
- Mirror
- Timer
- Bed protection, plastic strap
- Somthing to relax you during 30 minutes
- Cotton balls and betadine (dressing kit)
- Dermazine cream
- Trash can
- Basic cleaning material (paper)
- Glasses
- Light
- Blanket if you might be cold (not in Thailand)

Now, here is how to do:

1.  Shower and use hibiscrub soap on the vaginal area
2.  Prepare the bed with the plastic and hygenic bed protection
3.  Put the plastic strap so that you would sit on it
4.  Lie down on the bed, knees down, relaxed
5.  Put a condom on the medium dilator
6.  Put a lot of KY jelly on the dilator and some on the vaginal opening
7.  Insert the dilator slowly, the head directed down (don't go into the
    urethra)
8.  Push until 7 inches, you should feel pressure. You can keep the dilator in
    using the plastic strap you sat on
9.  Wait 30 minutes
10. Remove the dilator slowly
11. Go wash the vaginal area in the shower, you need a syringe
12. Use 3 full syringes of drinking water and insert the water in the vaginal
    opening. Don't try to get the water on the end on the vagina, just wash the
    opening.
13. Use a syringe with 5 graduations (0.5 ml) of betadine and use drinking water
    to fill the rest of the syringe (50 ml). Wash the vaginal opening the same
    way.
14. Use hybiscrub soap to gently wash the vaginal area.
15. Back on the bed, apply betadine on the scar lines with a cotton ball (in the
    dressing kit)
16. Apply Dermazine antiseptic cream on the clitoris and inside the labia minora

And you're set, do that twice a day.