--- 
title:      The Last Days at the Hospital
created_at: 2010-10-12 05:11:38.992154 +07:00
excerpt:
kind:       article
publish:    true
tags:
  - en
  - srs
--- 

Hi,

It's 5 am in the morning, and I can't sleep and I'm in slight pain. I spent all
the afternoon of Monday sleeping 'cause the last days at the hospital weren't so
great. I was released from the Hospital at Monday noon.

Sunday, I hoped to have the internal packing inside my vagina removed, It was
uncomfortable to have especially considering that my bowels had started to fill
up again and the packing took extra space. I also didn't feel much like eating.
I was not in a so good mood.

The night before was really painful (from Friday to Saturday). I had some sharp
pain that scared my boyfriend to death. I was sleeping gently, then, few moments
before a nurse came to give me the pills to take before bedtime, I woke up in
intense pain. I cried my lungs out, gasping for my breath, and scared everybody.

First, I took the bedtime pills that contained paracetamol, then the nurse came
with the standard painkillers (two pills of paracetamol 500) and finally she
came back with a huge (said my boyfriend) syringe of equivalent to morphine. I
was then left panting for few minutes before things came back to normal. This is
not usual but it can happen, beware.

I then called my parents (think so) to talk things out. Elie was very frustrated
not to be able to help me in any possible way, but sometimes you have to deal
things by yourself, and knowing your love mate is around is enough. Just like a
woman giving birth.

The next day, I didn't eat much, or not at all depending of your point of view,
my stomach was not agreeing with all the medicine I had to take (five pills
after each meals, even the one I didn't took, and about four or five at bedtime,
plus all the painkillers).

The night from Sunday to Monday was difficult al well, I had pain in my bladder,
and didn't want to take the paracetamol because on my scrambled stomach. I
called my parents at 4 am in the morning (11 pm in France) to understand that I
haven't drunk enough water. Of course, my IV had been removed. So there was no
way for the body to drain all the toxins from the pills. From 5 am to 6:30 I
drunk 1.5 litter and I was released from the pain.

At 6:30 came the torture I was expecting, drink from 1 to 2 litters of water
with the catheter (*sonde urinaire pour les français*) blocked. So the pee
couldn't come out and I could train my bladder to grow, since it had shrunk.
This was a very difficult exercise I found very difficult to do given all the
water I drunk before. Then, at 8, the catheter was released and the pain
removed.

Then, came Dr Suporn, he removed the vaginal packing (10 or 20 meters of gauze
bandage roll) and he proceeded to the first dilation. That is having the medium
dilator inserted up to 7 inches for 30 minutes (starting when you arrive at full
depth). I have to do that twice a day for at least 6 months if not more. After a
year, the regime can be eased a little. This was a little bit uncomfortable
only, as the dilator is constantly pressing the end of the vagina, but not so
hard.

Then I slept.

My passport to be released from the hospital was to pee all right, so I had to
drink more and have a nurse confirm that I could pee. It doesn't spray in the
right direction still, because of the swelling, but I can pee ok.

All this time, I still felt nausea, and I effectively threw up few minutes
before leaving the hospital and just after a nurse gave me an injection of
anti-nausea. Ironic. Can't stand medication I tell you. By the way, even if I
didn't escape injection of painkillers before removing the packing, I escaped
the after-breakfast pills, so that was good. Only the smell of the pills made me
nauseous.

Arrived at the Hotel, I was greeted by
[Valerie](http://www.myspace.com/valerietr38/blog) who seems to look fine, and I
then went to my room to sleep it off. Elie ordered room service, and I ate a
portion of a greek salad before a nurse from the clinic came to help me dilate a
second time by myself. I also escaped the pills this time. Then I slept again
and at wakeup I had a wonderful dream, and my nausea was almost gone. I ate
another greek salad without dressing for dinner and this time took my pills
(only the necessary, antibiotics and anti-swelling, I left the painkillers off).

I finally took the painkillers this night, the ones that are small.